in this video,
we're going to speak about how you confined the last row on your data set using xlv B A.
So finding the last row on your data set using a cell Viva is very important because if
you're dealing with a data set like this using VB a code and let's say you're Coppinger
data,
you need to make sure that your coat converter min what the last row for the data is,
regardless of how many rows the data has.
So if,
for example,
the next time you run the macron the status set instead of having 18 rose,
it would have ah,
30 rose,
for example,
You need to make sure that you have code that can determine each time how many rows there
are on your data set size to only select the rose that contain the data set.
And you wouldn't say like extra rows that are actually blank.
Okay,
so this is something that is very important to know when you're going to use it on nearly
every time you write a macro that deals with a data set.
Okay,
so finding your last row actually involves three steps.
The first step is actually starting at the last row in excel.
So actually,
we can get to the last room in excel by pressing control and down.
But this does not happen on the cold on the macro.
The micro just starts at the last row.
Okay,
so this is the starting point of your macro,
and then XlV be a axity jumps up until it hits the last row on your data set,
and you can jump up actually,
by pressing control and up,
and this is actually what the code does.
So it starts in the last row and the code,
you can think of it as present controlling up that it hits the last row on your data set,
which here in our case,
is gonna be row number 18.
And then the third step is asking,
what row A my on.
Okay,
so this is actually the third step.
What?
Row on my on.
And of course,
thes three steps actually happen in just one line of code.
Okay,
but this is how you can understand it.
Just go to the last row,
jump up until you hit the last year on my data set,
and then ask the question Which row?
On my on.
Okay,
so I've opened the visual basic editor here.
And basically,
in order to determine the last throw on your data set,
you need to create a variable because this variable is going to contain the row number for
the last row.
And the road number is gonna be basically an integer,
right.
It's just a number,
and it cannot be a distant all.
So I'm assigning to it the integer data type and also the single data type could work
because the single data step could work with both integers and decimals as well.
And if your data set contains more than 32,000 grows than this indigent data type will not
be enough.
Right?
So you need to go higher.
Go single,
go double whatever.
So the last roll,
actually,
you're going to determine it using the statement cells rose dot counts and then comma one
and then end excell up dot ro.
Okay,
so let's analyze that statement and see what it does.
Basically,
I'm using the cells collection object to go to a cell.
This sells address,
the road number is gonna be froze.
The account,
which is actually the number of rows in my Excel workbook,
and we're writing it as rose dot counts instead of writing one million something because
first of all,
it's easier to write this way because you don't have to memorize the number.
And the second thing is that if you're using Excel 2003 XL 2003 only had 65,000 rows.
So this ensures that you select the last row on your worksheet regardless of the number of
rows,
because you're actually using the count property for the Rose Collection object to
determine the number of rows.
And then this is the column number for the cell that we're going to start from,
and the call number here is one.
And it could be anything because this will depend on your data set.
In our case here,
I'm actually gonna assume that the name column is the one that always has values because
the column that you base your last row on should be the column that always has values like
,
for example,
the employee I d.
And simply couldn't not have a name on the record or the date of birth.
But he can always have an i D if that's how your company works.
For example,
here there will always be a name,
for example,
in the State of Set.
But there could be a row where there's no date or there's no items sold or so,
but this data set can always contain the names.
So you need to make sure to base your row counting on the column that you suspect that it
will always have data OK or that you think that you will always have data in it.
So this is the first step.
I'm starting on the lost row in Excel and then that end excel up.
This is basically pressing control and up.
OK,
so this is the second step that I'm doing.
So the first step is starting of the lost cell in Excel.
Second step here is pressing,
controlling up.
And when I do that,
I'm hitting the last row on my data set.
So the third step is asking for the row number with the dot Rowe property,
so cells rose dot count comma one dot end excel up some on the lust row in excel,
pressing,
controlling up.
And then I'm hitting his cell and Then I'm asking for the Rowe property,
which will give me the road number for that particular cell,
which in our case,
should be 18.
So if we step through this cold step by step using F eight on our keyboard,
when we execute this line of code,
you could CRL r is equal to 18.
And that means the our last row is row number 18 which is correct if let's say we have
added any rose to this data set.
So now we've got a one extra row and were run this code again.
So it's running against by step as well you can see are the l.
Ours has become 19.
So that means that when you put this line of code in your code,
this will dynamically determine what the last row on your data set is.
So if your data set expands so number of rows increases or trinkets,
number of rows decreases.
You always make sure that your micro will be able to determine how many rows your data set
.
Haas.
That is actually a very important thing to learn in VB,
and you need to actually memorize this statement just Aziz you memories your name.
Okay?
This is a very important statement that you're gonna use.
Ah,
lot.
There is another way that you can determine what the last row is,
although it's not recommended.
Well,
just explain it for you.
Basically,
you can start at any cell in your data set.
And if you press control and down,
let's see what happens when you press control and down you actually end up on the lost None
blank cell.
OK?
It's not going to be essentially the cell in the last row,
because if there is a blank cell in the middle,
you're gonna end up on it.
So this is why I'm not recommending it.
For example,
if you insert a row here and this row is blank and if I press controlling down,
you can see here.
I've stopped actually at the Lost None blank row.
But there is a road here.
There's bling,
and this is not my last throw s.
So this is why this way is not recommended.
Because if you press control and down and write the code this way and this way is actually
sells one comma winner could be any selling your data set dot and excel down and end.
Excel Down means press control and down and then ask for the row number.
If there's a blank cell,
you're not going to reach your loss throw,
and you could end up with having the last row to be incorrect.
This is why you're not going to see the second way that we've explained here being used
often,
and you're actually going to see the first way of doing it being used more often.
Saros dot count comma one dot end Excel up Doc Rowe So Ah,
that's it,
guys,
for finding the last row in excel.
Viva!
It's a very important thing to understand,
Thank you very much watching this video,
and I'll see you on the next one.